README.md, before:

# Data Project Template

<a target="_blank" href="https://datalumina.com/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Datalumina-Project%20Template-2856f7" alt="Datalumina Project" />
</a>

## Cookiecutter Data Science
This project template is a simplified version of the [Cookiecutter Data Science](https://cookiecutter-data-science.drivendata.org) template, created to suit the needs of Datalumina and made available as a GitHub template.

## Adjusting .gitignore

Ensure you adjust the `.gitignore` file according to your project needs. For example, since this is a template, the `/data/` folder is commented out and data will not be exlucded from source control:

```plaintext
# exclude data from source control by default
# /data/
```

Typically, you want to exclude this folder if it contains either sensitive data that you do not want to add to version control or large files.

## Duplicating the .env File
To set up your environment variables, you need to duplicate the `.env.example` file and rename it to `.env`. You can do this manually or using the following terminal command:

```bash
cp .env.example .env # Linux, macOS, Git Bash, WSL
copy .env.example .env # Windows Command Prompt
```

This command creates a copy of `.env.example` and names it `.env`, allowing you to configure your environment variables specific to your setup.


## Project Organization

```
├── LICENSE            <- Open-source license if one is chosen
├── README.md          <- The top-level README for developers using this project
├── data
│   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources
│   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed
│   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets for modeling
│   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump
│
├── models             <- Trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries
│
├── notebooks          <- Jupyter notebooks. Naming convention is a number (for ordering),
│                         the creator's initials, and a short `-` delimited description, e.g.
│                         `1.0-jqp-initial-data-exploration`
│
├── references         <- Data dictionaries, manuals, and all other explanatory materials
│
├── reports            <- Generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc.
│   └── figures        <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
│
└── src                         <- Source code for this project
    │
    ├── __init__.py             <- Makes src a Python module
    │
    ├── config.py               <- Store useful variables and configuration
    │
    ├── dataset.py              <- Scripts to download or generate data
    │
    ├── features.py             <- Code to create features for modeling
    │
    │    
    ├── modeling                
    │   ├── __init__.py 
    │   ├── predict.py          <- Code to run model inference with trained models          
    │   └── train.py            <- Code to train models
    │
    ├── plots.py                <- Code to create visualizations 
    │
    └── services                <- Service classes to connect with external platforms, tools, or APIs
        └── __init__.py 
```

Commit message:

Revise README with project workflow and setup details
Updated README to reflect project workflow and cloning instructions.

README.md, after:

# Data Project Template

<a target="_blank" href="https://datalumina.com/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Datalumina-Project%20Template-2856f7" alt="Datalumina Project" />
</a>

## Cookiecutter Data Science
This project is the workflow for Phil as he learns to code

## Cloning and opening the code repository into VS Code

Before starting, clone this repository and insert it into a new folder in the desktop structure. Right click the folder you want to insert the repository, and "Open Git Bash here," run the following command in git bash in your folder:

```plaintext
# git clone https://github.com/philipsissons/"your project".git
```

Typically, you want to exclude this folder if it contains either sensitive data that you do not want to add to version control or large files.

## Duplicating the .env File
To set up your environment variables, you need to duplicate the `.env.example` file and rename it to `.env`. You can do this manually or using the following terminal command:

```bash
cp .env.example .env # Linux, macOS, Git Bash, WSL
copy .env.example .env # Windows Command Prompt
```

This command creates a copy of `.env.example` and names it `.env`, allowing you to configure your environment variables specific to your setup.


## Project Organization

```
├── LICENSE            <- Open-source license if one is chosen
├── README.md          <- The top-level README for developers using this project
├── data
│   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources
│   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed
│   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets for modeling
│   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump
│
├── models             <- Trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries
│
├── notebooks          <- Jupyter notebooks. Naming convention is a number (for ordering),
│                         the creator's initials, and a short `-` delimited description, e.g.
│                         `1.0-jqp-initial-data-exploration`
│
├── references         <- Data dictionaries, manuals, and all other explanatory materials
│
├── reports            <- Generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc.
│   └── figures        <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
│
└── src                         <- Source code for this project
    │
    ├── __init__.py             <- Makes src a Python module
    │
    ├── config.py               <- Store useful variables and configuration
    │
    ├── dataset.py              <- Scripts to download or generate data
    │
    ├── features.py             <- Code to create features for modeling
    │
    │    
    ├── modeling                
    │   ├── __init__.py 
    │   ├── predict.py          <- Code to run model inference with trained models          
    │   └── train.py            <- Code to train models
    │
    ├── plots.py                <- Code to create visualizations 
    │
    └── services                <- Service classes to connect with external platforms, tools, or APIs
        └── __init__.py 
```
